# TextMining: Generating Haikus from Wikipedia Articles
## By Charlie Weiss

## Project Overview
This project pulls the content from the user's choice of Wikipedia article and generates a haiku (roughly 5-7-5) from it. It makes use of dictionaries, lists, and Markov analysis to do so.


# Implementation
The function generate_haiku calls retrieve_article, which uses functions from pattern to find the article provided by the user and convert it to plaintext. Next, it calls the function create_word_pairs, which fills a list with all the possible word pairs in the article. Once complete, generate_haiku runs a while loop which calls the function best_suffix, which takes a word (called 'prefix'), finds all the word pairs in which the 'prefix' is the first word, and puts them in a list. This list is then used to fill a dictionary with all the possible next words (called 'suffixes') and the frequency they occur in the article, like a histogram. The dictionary is sorted by frequency, and the function returns one of the highest probable next words. This word is added to the current line of the haiku, assuming it has room for more syllables, and becomes the new 'prefix', until the haiku is complete. The haiku is printed along with the title of the Wikipedia page searched for.

There are alternate ways to implement Markov analysis (contained in the functions create_word_pairs and best_suffix), which make different use of data structures and different sizes of tuples (such as using word triplets instead of pairs). I chose the implementation that was conceptually simplest for me, and used only word pairs due to the restriction of syllables in haikus.

The project could be improved with greater text processing, such as removing citations from the Wikipedia text, which can create unintelligible poetry. It also generates haikus which don't strictly adhere to the 5-7-5 structure, because it uses the 3 letters per syllable average to cut line length. Utilizing a dictionary of common english words and their syllable lengths could help tighten this structure.

# Results
Present what you accomplished:
If you did some text analysis, what interesting things did you find? Graphs or other visualizations may be very useful here for showing your results.
If you created a program that does something interesting (e.g. a Markov text synthesizer), be sure to provide a few interesting examples of the program's output.

Here are some fun examples of haikus generated by this code:

Coffee

bloom simultaneously.

Gynoecium consists of

the first to be
---
 
Space

a theory of a theory

of the philosophy of space

was any theory of
---

Truth

are true. They are

true. They were introduced

around the truth
---
 
And here is an example of an unintelligible haiku accidentally seed with a citation, which could be fixed with further iteration:

Life

Bibcode:1986PNAS...83.4360C.

doi:10.1073/pnas.83.12.4360.

Retrieved 12 April

# Reflection
Given that I expected about this quality of haiku, I think this was a properly scoped project. My greatest asset in this project was my ability to code in small iterations. At any given time, I knew exactly the line at which the code broke, and was able to fix it without great headache. Honestly, the skill that would have helped me most when I started would be that little thing called time management.
